Welcome back.
Now it's time to add another checkbox because I will show you how you can go ahead and add functionality
to the button via Python code.
So I created this additional checkbox here and now what I want to happen is when somebody presses this
push button this checkbox should be activated by our signals and slots here at the bottom which we have
already created.
And the second checkbox this one here should be handled by our Python code and how we can do that is
the following way.
First of all we need to have an identifier for this checkbox and identifies this object name.
So we can of course call a checkbox to or we could just call it Sibi which is short for check box.
So now if I want to access this checkbox let me save this file real quick and go back to Python.
And here I need to make sure that I run my build so that changes are applied.
So now I can go back to my main window by and check if I can find something called sibi.
And you can see there is something called self Sibi which is a cutey widget checkbox.
So a queue check box which has the object name of c.b.
All right so now we can go ahead and access that Sibi any time you want.
How do we do that.
Well in here we can pretty much just said the check box and call its toggle method but that's not exactly
how it works because the C-B is within UI window.
So we need to tell it OK I want to x as you window Dotsie B.
And from that I want to apply all onto that.
I want to apply to toggle method.
But when do we actually want to apply that.
Well we want to apply it once somebody presses on a button.
So let's create a little method that should handle button clicks.
So I'm just going to say on partan underscore click.
So if somebody clicks the button I just want to print something like an button click was pressed or
something like that on a button click and hearsay pressed or caught.
So this method was called.
Now how do I actually call it from a button.
Well I need to go to the button itself.
So the button is within my window which is my main window which pretty much contains all of my UI elements.
So the checkboxes to button and so forth.
So here I will check my button which I called my button and I can go to click it.
So there is a method called clicked and I can connect that to my on button click.
So that's pretty much the procedure you need to have the name of the UI main window which I called you
my window do you need to have the name of the button which I called my button so let's go back real
quick to check.
And here this button is called My button.
And that's really important because that's exactly the identifier of the button.
And that's exactly the one that we need to use here.
So I want to access my button.
There is something called clicked and I want to connect that clicked with my function that I created
myself which is does the on button click.
So now once somebody clicks on the button it will pretty much print on button clicked kalt.
And before we run that there is one LITTLE thing that I need to change because here it says on button
click.
But I don't want to call the on button click method in here.
I just want to pass it as the argument here.
So I'm just passing this method as an argument so it just kind of call it automatically OK.
So don't call the method in here.
Don't use the brackets here.
Just pass the method name.
And now we can run our main white and press the push button and as you can see on button click called.
But then the other button is still disappearing.
So how do we fix that.
Well just a second.
So just once again you see on button clicked was called and that's always good to check with a print
statement.
Whether your interactivity works so whether button clicks and those kind of things whether they work
before you add functionality in here and then you're wondering why the functionality is not working.
Because after you checked the print statement then you will see directly OK.
The functionality works then we can add some other stuff in here so we could add whatever we wanted
in this function and it would be called and executed.
Once somebody presses a button.
But now the checkbox disappeared how would we fix that.
Well let's go to our cute creator and here instead of hiding.
Let's change that to toggle because we don't want to hide it anymore we just want to toggle it.
So let me say that again and I will stop the main and I will run build once again real quick because
I made some changes in the cube Ed..
Now we can go ahead and run main once again and you will see that this checkbox is active and active
or it's toggled pretty much.
So now I want to toggle the checkbox.
How do we do that.
Well as I told you earlier we need to access you I windowed CB So we access the checkbox itself and
there we need to call the toggle method.
So there is this toggle method that pretty much toggles to element and an toggle switch.
So if I save that and run it again you will see that both my checkboxes now get toggled by my push button.
All right.
And now there is something that you can actually do as well.
So instead of creating this method which really just does one thing and it toggles our checkbox I can
just add the name of the method in here as well because this here is also a method name so I could just
say OK just past the toggle method in here.
So then we don't need this code here anymore.
So I'm just going to comment it out.
All right.
Now let me run the code again just to see whether it's still working and you can see it's still working.
Now there's one more thing.
So we have this code here and we have a very similar code here which says self my button clicked connect.
So checkbox toggle.
So it's pretty much the same kind of code only that here we are accessing the checkbox and not the CB.
So this main window Y contains this same kind of code and it's automatically created based on the signals
and slots and tree that we have here.
OK.
So that's how everything is pretty much connected.
And now you could go ahead and create the methods you like and you can put them in there so that may
actually come in this line out as well.
So you can see both versions out like that.
OK.
So these are the two versions that we could use either.
We use the one with comment that we have commented out.
Or the one that we have here which is just one line but this only makes sense if you really just do
this one thing if we had more things that should happen for example we print something on the screen
then we do some calculations and so forth.
In this method then it would make sense to use this or pass this method instead of passing this very
basic code.
I just wanted to show you that this is also possible.
OK.
So in the next video we are going to check out how to structure.
Well we're going to restructure our co-promote so see you there.